So let's add the textfield for the footer columns now.
So remember in, when we were writing the footer we mentioned that this will be a textfield and the
user will be able to choose the columns layout using this field.
So let's add a textfield and we already know how to do that. So let's do it quickly.
So let's copy one of these.
And let's call it "footer_layout". And a "default"
let's make it the "3, 3, 3, 3" and it will be postMessage. And we need to refresh the footer layout when
this setting is changed. So we can add the setting to the array of settings in the footer partial. "sanitize_
callback",
you can just use the WordPress "sanitize_
text_field". And let's add a control for this setting.
So it will be a textarea.
So let's copy this and edit it.
Same ID as the setting and "'type' => 'text'". And "label"
let's call it "Footer Layout".
And the "section"
it will be the footer section.
So let's check now.
And
we now have this textfield where we can edit layout.
So let's go ahead now and use this field in the three files that we hardcoded the filled in, so we have this one.
So get_theme_mod().
And the name which is, we call it "footer_layout". Let's copy it.
And the second argument is the default value. And they should match the default value in the the Customizer.
And this is a value from the database so let's sanitize it.
Actually have a typo here.
Let's do one more thing.
So now I'm getting this value from the user. So what if the user typed a space here or something. We need to
remove all spaces before using the variable.
So "footer_layout = preg_replace" and it takes a regular expression.
So this one is, will find all spaces, sorry "/\s+/"
and then the second argument is something to replace the spaces with which is nothing.
And that argument is the string that contains these spaces. So it's $footer_layout. So now we modified footer layout
out to remove spaces in case they exist.
So of course you may think the user can type like something that is not aligned with this pattern here.
He can type some letters or stuff like that.
And we'll take care of this in a moment.
But let's now save. And let's copy these and we'll use the same thing in the other files. So
here and we don't need it in the info actually.
So let's now refresh.
And let's go to the Footer Options and change this. So you can't see because  we need to add some widgets for this.
So let's go to the widgets and
let's add a Gallery.
And
let's add, I don't know, Tag Cloud. So as you can see we now only have footer column 1 2 and 3. You don't have the fourth
one and that's because of course we have now three columns here. So you can modify the layout
in order to fit three columns and make it "4, 4, 4".
And as you can see it now takes all this space.
So I think that's perfectly. Let's just handle the case where a user can type some letters and stuff like that.
So what we need to do is do something that will tell the user that the input that you entered does not
match the pattern that we expect.
So in addition to sanitization, settings can also accept validation callbacks.
So let's add a validation callback here. And remember the difference between validation and sanitization. It's
called "validate_callback"
is that sanitization will happen before saving to the database and in validation if some conditions are
not met the value will not be even submitted to the database.
So let's create a new function that will do some validation. And let's call it "_themename_validate_footer_layout"
"_themename_validate_footer_layout". So we need this function to check what the user typed.
And if it matches the pattern that we need we will submit it.
And if not we will display an error. And to display an error WordPress provides an easy way to do that.
And we'll see this in a moment. So let's create a function.
So the validation callback receives two arguments, an object called $validity  and the $value that
we typed.
So the validity object is used to manage errors that we need to display in the Customizer.
So we need to check first if and I'm gonna use preg_match() here. And preg_match()
will check if your string matches a certain pattern.
So I'm gonna paste the pattern here.
You don't have to know how to write this pattern but with the help of Stack Overflow I was able to figure out
the pattern which we need, which is number, number, number, number and the number should
not be greater than 12, which is the maximum of our grid system.
So if you don't know about regular expressions don't worry I don't know either. But I was able to figure
out this pattern using some help.
So it takes the second argument which is the $value. This $value that we typed in the input.
So if not, if the pattern did not match or if the value did not match this pattern, we need to display an
error.
So to do that we'll use the validity object. And a method called add(). And it takes an ID for the
So let's call it "invalid_footer_layout". And it takes a string that will be displayed to the user.
So of course it should be escaped and translated. And let's call it, let's type "Footer layout is invalid"
and text domain.
And then we'll have to return this object.
So we will return this object either way
in the validation function. But if we had an error we will add to it the error text.
So let's see if this will work.
And let's type 13 here. And as you can see "Footer layout is invalid". Let's type 12
and now it's valid. Let's type some letters and so on.
And if you try to publish, it won't publish an invalid field. And it will tell you here "Unable to save due
to one invalid setting.
So great. So now, so we're now able to take the columns from the user and validate and refresh the footer
without refreshing the whole website using partials.
So I think that's it for the footer options. For the next part we will take care of this logo here.
We need to take an image logo from the user and put it here.
And if the user did not choose logo then we fall back to this
site title. So let's do this in the next lecture.